---
title: New York, Google, summertime
layout: post
timestamp: July 9, 2012
---

This will be a mundane life-update post.  I migrated my blog over to Jekyll hosted on GitHub Pages because I hate Blogger and I like total control over my content.

I'm six weeks into my second internship at Google, this time in New York City on the Spreadsheets team.  My old office in Atlanta (conveniently located a mile from my apartment and Georgia Tech) is being shut down this month, so I had to go through a new host-matching process for a different location.  New York sounded fun and different, and I assume we'll live in California at some point, so twelve weeks with free housing presented itself as a good opportunity to take a nice, long vacation in a new place.

It's sad about Google Atlanta, though.  Some of the engineers chose not to relocate to other offices, a decision that I can understand: all my family and friends are in Atlanta.   Fortunately, both of the two major projects from Atlanta are open-sourced: the [Dart programming language](http://dartlang.org) and, as of this week, parts of a badass collaborative in-browser IDE now called [Collide](http://code.google.com/p/collide).  So at least their work is public.

Google New York is *much* larger than the Atlanta office, with a couple thousand engineers and numerous projects.  There are five cafés, and you can eat a cooked breakfast, lunch, and dinner every single day, plus unlimited snacks, coffee, and drinks, for free.  My floor has no cubicles--we have a bunch of desks arranged into clusters for each team.  There's a large pile of nerf guns near my team's area, and one of the meeting rooms nearby has a Rock Band setup.  These are all just perks, of course, intended to keep you happy and working longer hours, but it does make it a nicer place, especially if you're already of the workaholic inclination.

The city itself is strange.  Very dense, often dirty, and always busy.  The first few weeks were pretty overwhelming, and it's not like I haven't travelled.  It's tourist season (or is it always?), and our current neighborhood is just a few blocks northwest of Times Square, which makes it a painful and rage-inducing exercise to walk anywhere east or south.  In fact, walking down a busy Manhattan street is enough to understand why New Yorkers have a reputation for rudeness: it's a survival instinct.  Fortunately, each of the city's neighborhoods has a unique feel, and some of them are much calmer and laid-back.

Working on the Google Docs team has so far been a fantastic experience.  I've listened to a couple of fascinating talks about the Docs system architecture which, together with the talks I attended last summer about Google's search architecture, are alone sufficient to attract any engineer interested in distributed systems.  My specific project is part of an unannounced and unreleased Docs-related thing, so I can't talk about it, but I look forward to work every day and I'm writing code directly related to my academic interests.  It's hard to ask for more than that.

Nina's working at a restaurant called Hummus Kitchen.  They serve kosher mediterranean food, and it's delicious.  I could eat there every night, which is convenient, because it's two blocks away.  She's been learning to program in Python through [Udacity](http://udacity.com), and she's actually enjoying it a lot.  I've convinced her to read the famous [Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs](http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/full-text/book/book.html) which together with the practical Udacity courses is, I think, every bit as good as an undergraduate degree in computer science.  It would be ironic if she ends up getting a job in software development after all of that liberal education.

I've just finished a fascinating book about the Byzantine Empire, [A Short History of Byzantium](http://amzn.com/0679772693) by John Julius Norwich.  He often cited Edward Gibbon, which again got me excited about that series, so I might jump the gun on all my other books and start the first volume next week.
