---
layout: post
title: "Advent of Code 2019: Running Commentary"
date: 2019-11-25
permalink: /advent-of-code-2019.html
---

# Contents

[Background](#background), [Day 1](#day-1)

# Background

Next month marks seven years that I've been at Google, not counting the two
internships. That's seven years since I last went on an interview, and seven
years since I last cared about algorithm design and coding challenges. I've
occasionally spent a weekend on a side project -- mostly Sudoku solvers and Lisp
interpreters, my standard projects for learning a new language -- but mostly I
go to work, where I try to fit bits of code into enormously complex systems and
occasionally refactor them somewhat, and go home, where I do something
completely unrelated, like read German or watch TV.

After a burnout episode earlier this year, the details of which I'll omit, I
decided to get back in touch with programming outside of the day-to-day grind
of fiddling in million-line codebases. I considered applying to the [Recurse
Center](https://www.recurse.com), but it turns out that rent and childcare are
too expensive for me to justify taking twelve weeks off without pay. Instead
I've been fiddling around with various small projects. Somewhere I stumbled
across [Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com), and I'm a huge sucker for
holiday-themed stuff like this, so I'm giving it a shot.

I'm writing the solutions in Go, even though Rust would be my first choice. I
spent several months with Rust earlier this year, and I think it's brilliant.
I fully expect it to transform the development of safe and performant large
systems. But when I went back recently to some of the code I'd written just a
few months ago, I couldn't understand a thing, and trying to write something
new was as painful as if I'd never used it at all. It occurred to me to try Go
again -- which I last used nontrivially in
[2012](https://github.com/dhconnelly/rtreego) -- and feeling proficient again
took about two days. I'm hoping to come back to Rust next year.

I'll try to solve each problem on the day it appears and then write about it,
updating this post as I go. The full code will be in a [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/dhconnelly/advent-of-code-2019). Good luck to
everyone else participating!

# Day 1

Foo bar baz

```
func solveDay1Part1(r io.Reader) string {
	b, err := ioutil.ReadAll(r)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	return string(b)
}
```
